# pandas-challenge
Berkeley Data Bootcamp module 4 challenge

The data used in this analysis tracked 39, 170 students across 15 schools in a single school district. The purpose of this analysis is to determine whether the size of the school, the type of school, and/or the amount of money spent by the school could be reasonably said to impact the reading and writing scores of high school students.

Beginning with the district data, math scores across all schools are on average 78% or a C+ with roughly 75% of students holding a passing math grade. Reading scores averaged at 82% or a low B and 86% of students holding a passing grade or higher. That stated, the data showed that only 65% of students in the district were passing both math and reading consecutively. Information regarding the year this data was produced and where this district was located would be beneficial to understanding how it is performing in comparison to other American school districts. 

When breaking the data down to each school, a pattern begins to emerge. Out of the 15 schools, 7 of them had overall passing rates between 50% and 55%. The remaining schools had overall passing rates between 89% and 92% so a huge disparity exists in this district. The top 5 schools were all charter schools and the bottom 5 were all district schools. Further exploration showed that district schools accounted for all the 50%-55% passing rate schools. It is evident that the type of school is a large contributing factor.

When the schools are further broken down by grade, we see that the average math and reading scores are largely consistent among students. Most students have a high C or low B in math and a low to mid B in reading. This is consistent with the district data and so it appears that grade level has little to no impact on student performance. 

School budgets and school spending per student, as seen in this data, shows the opposite of what would be expected. Cabrera High School, a charter school with the highest overall passing rate at 91.3%, has a budget of $1,081,356.00 and spends less than $585 per student. Rodriguez High School, a district school with the lowest overall passing rate at 52.9%, has a budget of $2,547,363.00 and spends between $630 and $645 per student. Other high schools with higher budgets spend up to $680 per student and still have passing rates less than 55%. In fact, when broken down by per student spending, a clear inverse relationship between budget and performance appears.

Throwing money at the problem of poor academic performance is not a data-backed solution. What seems to be the issue at hand is school size. This is not to say that small schools in this area always perform better. In fact, Cabrera High School, the top performer, is a medium-sized school with 1000-2000 students and Holden High School with less than 500 students also has only an 89% passing rate. Rather, the problem seems to be with large schools. Each of the district schools (which have less than a 55% passing rate) also have between 2000 and 5000 students and much larger budgets.

The issue here seems to be the amount of time spent with students. The data shows that the average math and reading scores are normal, passing grades but only 53.6% of students in district high schools are passing these classes. This indicates that the outliers are earning very low failing grades in schools where the student-to-faculty ratio is likely far from what it should be. Further analysis should include information such as student-to-faculty ratios in all schools as well as resource allocation. If larger schools are spending more money per student than smaller charter schools but producing lower-performing students, this would be an area worth exploring and could likely lead to more effective solutions.
